all right and you are the parents of the
two beautiful sisters in back of you yes
yes and I understand that they are
minors one okay
which one all right how old is she
15 15 and do you believe it's in her
best interest to speak we do yes and
you've talked about this with her yes
you know the whole world is watching her
words her voice
everything will be published publicized
or could be yes yes and you think she
can handle that we do yes
and no one has forced threatened course
you paid you anything promised you
anything for this is that correct no
it's one of those double negatives we in
America do I just need to make sure it's
correct for the record yes all right so
at this time I will ask your daughters
just step forward and give me their name
and spell our names all right could you
tell me your name and spelling my name
is Cara Johnson ka ra joh and som and I
would just like to thank you again fill
it in a shared story you may proceed
Your Honor I would like to just address
the defendant I'm writing this in
response to your actions mr. Nassar for
not following proper medical conduct and
a result exploiting hundreds of young
girls including myself at such a
vulnerable time the pain you have caused
me mentally and emotionally is
unexplainable and has been impacting my
life heavily especially these past few
months I am currently a senior in high
school I should be focusing on my
classes
exams upcoming tennis season and college
search instead I'm here and have been
here for months hoping that after this
is all over I can finally be a senior in
high school again you took advantage of
your authoritative powers as my doctor
and a result took my innocence instead
of healing me I am hurt and confused as
you placed me into a position that not
only made me insecure but was extremely
inappropriate and uncomfortable I
remember the anxiety I would have
entering the office knowing how the
appointment would most likely go and
tell you myself
it was normal to feel that queasy ache
in the pit of my stomach that you were
performing those procedures for the
right reasons I remember telling myself
that you were safe and I should trust
you with my body as you were a doctor
for athletes across the country that I
looked up to my dad is a do and you knew
that at the time when I was your patient
when he would show up to my appointments
with me he wouldn't do your typical
procedure that I became used to
performing I was uncomfortable at the
point miss without my father but
maintain trust in you as the framed
images of the patients on your wall told
an incredible story of a great doctor
who could heal anyone I remembered they
wanted pointment that's replayed over
and over in my mind and has given me
nightmares
still to this day you had me get x-ray
from my hips and back and then check
them out with a strange obsession and
how my hips were not fully developed yet
and that you could tell my period had
not started he then made me change into
those strange shorts you had in your
cabinet shorts that were so big I was
swimming in and that gave you easy
access to my body I was totally stomach
down on the table where he proceeded to
stack white towels between my mom and I
and adjust the table to an angle where
she couldn't see which I remember
feeling weird about I immediately shut
down all of those thoughts as I told
myself you were going to fix me and that
it was okay to feel uncomfortable that
you were going to heal my pain you then
pulled my shorts down moves my underwear
over to the side and started touching me
without consent without telling me
you were going to do and if that wasn't
bad enough with your gloveless hands you
had your eyes closed and continued to
molest me
after a few minutes of this you just
left the room leaving my mom and I
extremely uncomfortable while my bear
bot was out you came back into the room
five minutes later with a tube of some
kind of lubricant you think continued
this procedure using the lubricant and I
began to feel numb down there I think at
that point wondered how what you were
doing which fix the pain I had from
jamming my hip after a cross-country
race after about 30 minutes of this he
smacks my bot said all right we are done
here sweetie
and they pulled up my shorts he said
quietly to me that if I was ever on my
period during one of your appointments
to let you know so you could change
things up a bit after that appointment I
was supposed to go back to school but
everything seemed cloudy and I had the
urge to shower as I felt dirty and gross
I took a 45-minute shower that day and
that feeling never left I was only 13
years old you manipulated me into
believing that you were the only doctor
that could fix me and I had to have you
or no one at all and for so long I
believe that to be true
I still cannot get over the grief that
you have caused me by creating the false
relationship of trust in custody and I
cannot believe that I felt safe and in
good hands when I was with you you
fooled me telling me of your family
stories telling jokes to me to attempt
to make me more comfortable in liking my
social media posts some of the things
that I now realize were major red flags
and she's I've never been tolerated I
should have went with my gut and told
someone that something felt very off but
how was I supposed to know at the age of
13 what was medically acceptable and
what the boundaries were I am disgusted
by your actions and with the fact that
even under investigation you had the
ability and power to continue these
procedures on patients such as I without
following the medical restrictions you
were placed under these few months I've
been extremely difficult me for me as I
had been struggling through depression
and fighting off suicidal thoughts I
assumed I was gone
crazy but ever hearing all of these
other girls speak I'm realizing that I'm
not crazy at all and now I am suffering
from something you did to me for so many
years I need I never used to question
the purpose of my life and I never used
to have nightmares about being raped
which is something that I'm now
extremely paranoid about even though it
has never happened to me you place so
much fear in my life Larry and I will
never be able to get back what you have
taken so effortlessly from me your
actions along with all the other actions
of abusers in this country shall not go
unnoticed
Trust is a hard thing to earn and
personally has been something much
harder to develop since you've molested
me I now know that I cannot second-guess
myself when it comes to decisions with
my body
and it sickens me to note that I was not
the only one who had her innocence taken
away without even truly knowing what was
going on it is terrifying
how sick perpetrators like you are given
the power to do such terrible things to
innocent children for so long and almost
get away with it so many people believed
you were innocent as you have
brainwashed us all into believing that
you were someone of great medical
integrity and I'm angry at those who
have been shutting down this case for so
many years and who have not taken the
degree of this sexual abuse seriously I
used to be sorry I felt bad that you had
to touch me and I grew very insecure I
am so glad that I no longer have to feel
bad for you and I'm glad that you will
be paying for you actions the rest of
your life you are now a powerless man
God knows of all the innocent victims
you took advantage of and the acts of
betrayal you have performed the Lord is
my shield and I know that through him I
am capable of all things and that I will
persevere through this and that even the
most evil of sins like the ones you have
committed cannot destroy Who I am and
will have major consequences that will
follow you for the rest of your life God
has spoken to me for the God has spoken
to me these past few days and I'm
finally starting to leave the dark place
I have been in for so long
you cannot take advantage of me anymore
mr. Nasir
and for that I'm grateful due to your
malpractice and of the pain you have
caused all victims I believe that you
should be in prison for a minimum of 40
years to reflect on what you have done
Your Honor I would like to thank you
again for allowing me to share my
statement today that's really and he
can't fool you as you've said but he
also can't fool anybody else who's heard
your words you're a tower of strength
and with your sister I'm going to hear
from in a moment there's just a survivor
you also have all of the sister
survivors you are all in this horrible
Club but you know what it's also a great
because you're all our strength we're
going to get past it when your message
is being heard by the world I know
you're gonna graduate congratulations in
high school and go on to college and
keep talking to men and women alike
about this because college is another
place where we see this happening over
and over and over again young people who
don't know or put themselves in bad
situations and I know you will be one of
those voices that they won't listen to
so you are proud example
thank you thank you thank you for being
here please date and spell your name for
the record Madeline ma de Li and E
Johnson jo h and s :
and how old are you today 15 and you're
comfortable speaking yes alright very
good you seem very confident I want to
hear those words nice and loud alright
alright thank you
the first time I went to seen a star I
was 12 years old being a little gymnast
I was I was beyond excited I had the
opportunity to have NASA as my doctor he
was spoken so highly of as he was known
as the gymnastics doctor I was slowly
injuring my back more and more with
every practice until one night my pain
was so bad I couldn't even breathe
without breaking down into tears
my parents were contemplating whether or
not to take me to the ER but my mom
insisted she would just text NASA to get
me into an appointment as this seemed
like the most beneficial way to get
treatment my mom texted him and he got
me in right away the next day I couldn't
hardly wait to see NASA because with all
the stories I've heard about him
supposedly treating Olympic gymnast I
knew he was capable of finally relieving
my back pain when I walked into his
office the next day I was immediately in
awe his walls were covered with a
substantial amount of pictures of the
Olympic gymnast always included a little
message in a signature I felt so lucky
that I got to have the same doctor as
all of my idols in the gymnastics world
and the doctor was now who was known as
the best of the best my appointment with
NASA this day was at least two hours
long after he addressed my injuries he
got started into the treatment NASA
approached so many different techniques
each one relieving my pain by a slight
amount then NASA pulled on my leg to
unjam my hip and at this point almost
all of my back pain was gone but he
still continued to try to fix me
I thought those hands slowly make their
way from my lower back down towards the
scenes of my shorts he asked me to flip
over onto my back and as I was doing so
he jokingly told me that the next thing
might be uncomfortable
before I could even reply to his comment
he moved his hands off my shorts he told
me he was going to push on my pubic bone
but instead I thought his finger fingers
touch a different part of my body a part
of my body that has never touched but
been touched by anyone before I thought
all of my muscles become tense but I
tried to tell myself to relax because he
was a doctor and he knew what he was
doing the next appointment was just for
my sister but I went along too she was
wearing pants and he made her change him
to these shorts that he had in a box
inside his cabinet because of this I
understood that it was also necessary
for me to wear shorts every time I had
an appointment I later learned NASA
wanted us to wear loose-fitting shorts
so he would have easy access to the
places he wanted for his own pleasure
soon enough I was back in his office
with that pain again my mom decided my
dad to take me to this appointment as he
is a physician and he could attempt to
learn what NASA was doing so I wouldn't
have to go into his office every time I
hurt my back I told my mom I did not
want my dad to take me because that
would be awkward my mom asked him I
asked me why it would be awkward but I
didn't answer this question I thought
that if my mom didn't think what he was
doing under my shorts was uncomfortable
then why should I before this
appointment I made sure I was showered
as I was preparing for him to have to
touch under my shorts again once we went
over symptoms he diagnosed me with the
same thing as before my dad was actively
watching an attempt to learn what NASA
was doing to help treat me during this
appointment Nasser didn't place his
hands anywhere near anywhere on my bare
skin I didn't even have to remove my
sweat pants to reveal my shorts I had
under them after this appointment
I remember thinking about him not doing
the same things as he did before but I
never mentioned it as I felt
uncomfortable talking about it and it
did not seem important or necessary to
say once again I injured my back I
followed through with the same routine
of making sure I was clean before I went
in and remembering to wear shorts under
my sweatpants by this time my mom and I
thought we were going to know what we
were expecting so my mom did not pay
much attention to what NASA was doing I
was lying on my back and asked her so he
slipped his hands up on my shorts this
time saying nothing about what he was
doing before he started
he didn't only touch inappropriate areas
but he moved my underwear to the side
and his ungloved hands massaged my bare
skin once he began this I looked over at
my mom but she was looking down I love
that Nasir only to see his body was
blocking my hips so even if my mom did
look up she could not see what he was
doing to me
his face was turned away from me his
eyes closed and squinting and he was
heavily concentrated on what he was
doing
Nasir did this for roughly five minutes
then said okay kiddo and made me turn
over onto my stomach he would then push
on my lower back which really it's pain
for the moment but once he stopped it
immediately returned he asked me for my
pain level and I told him it was the
same as before the answer I'm sure he
wanted to hear he repeated this
procedural several times until I
realized the only way I could get him to
stop was if I lied and said my pain was
all gone he had me lie on my back
and he yanked on my leg to unjam my hips
and that's when my back actually felt a
little better after this appointment
I knew my back was slowly getting worse
and Nasser's treatment was no longer
helping me I felt uncomfortable and
extremely dirty after leaving these
appointments my mom asked me if my back
actually felt better and I lied to her
saying if saying it did because I didn't
want her to know that NASA couldn't help
me I didn't I also didn't want her to
question me on why I was lying to him
about my pain levels I felt so guilty
and confused that had felt uncomfortable
with how this professional doctor with
such a well-known reputation was
treating me just as I was about to go to
bed one night an old friend texted me a
video link I clicked on the link not
knowing what to expect this video was
Rachel's video actually when I'm talking
about Larry Nasser sexually abusing her
I was in shock I didn't know what to
think I ran up the stairs to tell my mom
all about this video but before I could
finish explaining myself she told me she
already saw it
my mom and I sat there in silence for a
while and I felt so sick I was thinking
about all the appointments I had with
NASA trying to decide if this was abuse
or strictly a doctor's treatment I woke
up the next morning and I had thought of
feeling I have never felt all 14 years
of my life I went to school and wanted
nothing more than to be invisible the
entire day
I didn't know anyone to approach me to
talk to me or to touch me how I was
feeling this day is difficult to
describe but it's something I will never
forget and something I hope I never have
to feel again for a while I didn't
believe I was one of these sexually
abused victims I later learned that this
was not true I tried rejecting the fact
that I was molested by NASA because it
seemed like the easiest way to cope I
now know I was struggling so hard to
decide if it was abuse or not because I
knew if I admitted to myself that it was
it would change my life so much and it
did
I always knew what NASA did to treat me
was uncomfortable but only twelve years
old I had no idea that it was
inappropriate illegal and wrong he was
the doctor I was the child I had no idea
what to think I will never be able to
stress enough stress enough how much he
manipulated my family and I so he could
build a strong trust with us we put all
of our trust into this man and he had
such a high title and named to live up
to in the gymnastics world and to
athletes in general NASA spent so much
time on me and acted like he really
truly cared about me
Your Honor my seat is defendant you may
Larry you used to be everything to all
gymnasts and athletes and now you are
nothing more than a disgusting monster
you use your power entitled to hurt me
mentally and emotionally you abuse me an
innocent twelve-year-old girl for your
own sick pleasures you spent so much
time on me acting like you truly cared
about me today I'm a 15 year old girl
and throughout my years in high school I
have struggled with trust confidence
good judgment and for these past few
weeks especially achieving my academic
goals everyone thinks of me as a
physically and mentally strong person
but today I'm admitting to spending
countless nights crying
in my room suffering from feeling
worthless and lost for the longest time
you deprived me of my happiness the
ability to sleep at night and feeling of
being secure because of you every time I
hear someone call me kiddo as you did I
think of the face you made while you
were refusing me you called me that
reassuring to yourself that I was a
young naive girl there's a point in
everyone's life when they outgrow those
extraordinary dreams they had hopes they
could achieve as a child in reality
kicks in when they realized the world
isn't what they used to think it was
Larry you took this from me at 12 years
old I used to be such a joyful girl and
I believed everyone could be forgiving
for the mistakes they have made you made
me afraid of the world I will never
forget about the pain I have suffered
but Larry after today I will no longer
suffer I will be joyful that you will
never be able to lay your hands on
another girl again you'll no longer
deprive me of life your honor
sometimes I think it would be easiest
for me if I never knew about Nasser's
abuse but I quickly remind myself that
this would be the worst case possible if
he wasn't behind bars now he would be
hurting more and more young girls with
each day that passed why he did will
stick with us victims will stay with us
for the rest of our lives
therefore because we have to live with
it he should be sentenced to the maximum
out of years and locked up for the rest
of his life thank you thank you I am
your sister and your sister survivors
speaking out as you have done as your
sister has done as all the victims have
done so victim survivors helps others
and I hear that loud and clear in your
insightful youthful voice that's what
you want to do and that's one of the
reasons you and your sister right here
the world is a better place because of
what you've just said
both of you should be very proud of
yourself I know that now you don't feel
like the world is a great place but it
really really is I've heard what all of
you have said and you're so wise at your
tender age and I'm taking into
consideration everything in regard to
sentencing
you are both worthy of everything
wonderful don't let him take that away
from you because then he wins and I know
that your sister talked about suicide
you didn't but I suspect you like most
of the other survivor Victor's have
thought about it please know you're here
today because you want a happier world
and a happier life if you leave us he
wins I've said it to others I keep
saying it because suicides never ever an
answer you have some incredible parents
here with you so if there are any issues
I hope that you turn to them and
continue to get help he will be behind
bars and that should make you feel safer
and you should leave the grief and
sadness and unworthiness here in this
courtroom we'll sweep it away can we
take him away
thank you live happy lives thank you so
much
[Applause]
I'm here today to address Larry Nassar
both in is an osteopathic physician and
the father of two beautiful girls who
cared and abused by you before I begin I
would like to say how proud I am of each
and every survivor in this courtroom I
will never forget your stories and the
painting of horses as you so
courageously tell all those stories that
we've heard as a physician we are given
the great privilege to care for our
patients what a wonderful and beautiful
privilege this is our patients trust us
with our most intimate problems their
fears their bodies and their history
they trust that we will care for them
with compassion and respect and the love
that we will do no harm they place their
trust in us without knowing us because
we are physicians we make mistakes and
occasionally these unintentional
mistakes cause harm this causes us great
pain we carry these stories with us
forever never forgetting the patient we
armed and never forgetting the pain we
caused we learned from this and we try
to improve and become better caregivers
better physicians this is not your story
the pain you caused was intentional you
do not care for these young girls with
compassion respect and love your care
was selfish not selfless your story is
dark sinister and pure evil you preyed
on the most vulnerable you preyed on
innocence and you preyed on trust you
preyed on little girls and young women
God's children and he weeps with us your
story is very different Larry your story
starts with sick perverse and ungodly
intentions you are not a physician you
are a pedophile you only used your
degree as a platform to sexually abuse
your patients one by one for you're sick
and you're very perverse pleasure
you groomed your victims and plotted a
course full of deceit and abuse I hope
that you have heard each and every story
and I pray that these voices resonate in
you forever
you were once known as one of the elite
physicians in your profession now in
forever you will go down in history as
one of the worst humankind has to offer
a child molester a predator an abuser a
pedophile you cannot escape this
identity and to each and every
institution that denied responsibility
for this shame on you for a moment I ask
that you close your eyes and think of
your daughter do you remember her
innocence can you see her smile here her
youthful laughter now imagine her being
sexually assaulted by this man can you
hear her scream or as a silent this is
our reality and these were our children
if after that disturbing thought after
that disturbing image you can continue
to deny responsibility for fostering
this abuse and allowing this monster can
continue with his practice then you have
denied the truth you have learned
nothing these institutions emphasize the
importance of safe spaces ironically the
only safe place that was created with a
safe place for Larry Nasser to molest
children and young women without
boundaries and without oversight I asked
you where was a safe place for all the
abused for all of these survivors thank
you your honor
letter in your words may we have a copy
I'm sorry may we have a copy of what you
said should we already have a cap no you
don't all right sir
I know you're speaking on behalf of your
daughters but really you're speaking on
behalf of all children and you know as a
trained physician as a good physician
that's what you are to do and I'm so
thankful that you're here and for your
words because everybody needs to hear
that and doctors need to be reminded of
that patients need to be reminded that
they can tell you anything and if
something's wrong tell another doctor
who will report it and hopefully we have
that change because so many people
didn't report here that's why it's so
important for you all to be here so I
applaud you and I know that your
children are in great hands and I can't
thank you enough
[Applause]
I just realized as I've done in Prior
morning's that I have not updated the
court as to the number of impact
statements as of this morning that
number is 120 well and as I said I'll
keep you as much time into me I'm
clearing out my docket as we speak so
for those of you who want to be here
looks like with that number we'll see
where we land today we may be into
Tuesday although we're going pretty
rapidly I don't know I just don't want
to give anybody a hope that will finish
Monday it sounds to me like it made the
Tuesday and every day there's more added
so we'll see
the other the next survivor to speak is
Marie Anderson and I believe she just
recently I decided to be publicly
identified she is accompanied by her
parents and I have a photograph of the
screen as well ready and state and spell
your name for the record and then once
you read please read okay okay all right
thank you please dance player named
Marie Anderson ma RI e a ND e RS o n
thank you thank you your honor
I am here today to talk with you about
my experiences with Larry Nassar at
Michigan State University Sports
Medicine when I was fifteen years old I
was a swimmer and having issues with my
lower back during my visits to MSU for
back pain Larry claimed that I needed
pelvic adjustments he would have me lie
on the exam table face up and place my
legs open like you would during a
vaginal exam but without stirrups he
would move his fingers around the
outside of my vagina and anus
then he would insert his fingers into my
vagina and move them around inside of me
as well as move his fingers in and out
while his fingers were inside of me he
would also apply pressure with his other
hand to the outside of my lower abdomen
and massage the inside and outside of my
vaginal area this happened visit after
visit saying this out loud to you is
extremely uncomfortable for me and I'm
sure for everyone who is listening it is
supposed to be uncomfortable I would be
doing myself and the other brave women
here a great disservice by shying away
from what is now my truth as I discover
that this invasive treatment was not in
the best interest of my health I cannot
help but reflect on the impact the
entire treatment plan had during an
impressionable time in my life at the
age of 15 I was naive to sexual
intercourse and recall pain and
embarrassment I had my mom or dad in the
room but to my humiliation witnessed
this happening all under the impression
that they were taking me to the best
available the impact this has had on my
family is indescribable my parents who
had my best interest at heart will
forever have to live with the fact that
they continually brought their daughter
to a sexual predator and we're in the
room as he assaulted me
I wonder if the treatment plan Larry
created was intended to keep me coming
back in order to continue the assault as
I look back at the treatment I remember
I did not find relief with the methods
that he used I was in a full back brace
and on crutches under his treatment plan
I was a sophomore in high school and I
experienced a magnitude of harsh mocking
from my peers because of the large brace
over my clothes paired with the crutches
this led to a multitude of hurdles
including a lack of confidence and
difficulty in social situations that I
still face today I visited a therapist
to discuss these issues and I believe I
will need to continue therapy for these
issues as well as the realization that I
am a victim of sexual assault the impact
this continued assault had on my
childhood and my growth as an adult is
something I'm forced to confront and
will cope with indefinitely my
perspective of medical professionals is
damaged and I have a difficult time
trusting treatment opinions because I
feel that I have been deceived
manipulated and used to satisfy Larry
sexual desires
I will never regain what I've lost
and I will learn to cope with a lack of
faith in a system that failed me from
Larry Nassar to the institutions that
supported him for many many years
as an alumni of Michigan State
University I am disgusted to my core
that this man was able to harm so many
under their responsibility the pride I
had in my alma mater is tarnished and
diminishing as this continues to
progress I didn't choose to stand and
publicly share my story until earlier
this week last year when headlines
started coming out about these salts and
I had filed my report I was sitting
alone for lunch at McAlister's Deli it
was crowded in the ladies sitting at the
table next to me we're having a
conversation about their friend Larry I
sat frozen as they talked about these
girls who were making up these lies just
for the attention little did they know
that one of those girls who I promised
you would have been very happy with no
attention at all was sitting next to
them with tears falling down onto her
plate as I stand here today I am NOT the
woman sitting in McCallister's unable to
find the voice to give these grown women
a piece of her mind I am also not the
fifteen-year-old kid afraid of
disappointing the adults in her life I
am able to stand here today in front of
my abuser with an army of strong
powerful women behind me
asking that this man that hurt all of us
withers away for the rest of his life I
have a choice to make every day on how I
will grow and while we all are moving
mountains you Larry will have no choice
but to sit in prison and wait to die
thank you your honor thank you so much
you aren't just moving mountains you are
saving other's lives as well who have
heard your strong boys you are strong
and powerful to the core you are
confident you are more than just
survivor victim I think you are
unstoppable your words ring so true and
they are meaningful beyond this
courtroom beyond across the world people
are hearing you and you're making a
difference you're not letting those
other people who didn't listen to you I
didn't want to listen to you who are in
that next booth
not knowing who you are they know who
you are we have heard you you are strong
you've made a tidal wave and it's
growing thank you so much for being here
you're amazing thank you your honor
[Applause]
JJ I'm told the next survivor initially
had asked us to beat on her behalf
um Your Honor this is a meal a body and
her mother and her boyfriend are
accompanying her at the podium placed on
the screen at photograph of Amy as well
thank you thank you for being here
could you please date and spell your
name for the record
yes Amy labadie a my la da di e thank
you would you like me to know on
September 12 2016 I was getting ready
for bed and was on my phone
looking through news articles and came
across the article that was published in
the indie star about NASA former USA
Gymnastics doctor accused of abuse I can
still remember reading this and not
being able to comprehend what I was
reading at first and thinking there's no
way this is true this can't be true I
remember telling Steve did you read the
article about the gymnastics doctor and
him asking me I gave him a brief recount
about the victim and what NASA did to
her I remember him saying something like
it's horrible world sometimes I guess we
will see how it unfolds and then I just
dropped to the floor I swear I went
completely blank after that and it
almost felt like I blacked out from the
world I know he asked me if that
happened to me and I told him yes but
went silent won't words for the majority
of the night it was one of those cries
so intense that you can't speak I was in
complete shock and had no idea at the
time the immense emotions my body was
going through Steve just kept trying to
hug me and I kept pushing away and
sobbing the next day I went through the
workday feeling the worst I've ever felt
in my entire life not knowing how I was
going to tell my mom
when I got home from work
I took my dog for a walk and then called
her I asked her if she had read the
article she said no I explained that I
was about to tell her something horrible
that it was not her fault I told her
about Nasser molesting you during the
doctor's visit sir MSU sports medicine
when he went down there for when we went
down there for my back injury I told her
I couldn't believe that I didn't know he
molested me until I read the article
she asked me questions like what do you
mean I was in the room with you how
could he have done this to you while I
was there I had to explain that he must
have done it in a way that he could not
that she could not see his hands I asked
her if NASA asked if he could do this to
me
or if she could think of any reason why
this could be she said no to all of it
I remember being in complete denial
hoping my mom could do what she always
does and comfort me as she always does
but nothing she said to me could take
away the shock that was running through
my body
I loved gymnastics I started at the age
of seven or eight and it was competing
level five by the age of nine
it was everything to me to put on my
long sleeve leo warm-up jacket slicked
back my hair with an inch of gel so
tightly secured with my scrunchies I
competed all the way through high school
my family devoted so much time to
driving me to practice four to five days
a week and traveling around the state
and country to meet all these years in
August of 2005 I sought out NASA in
hopes of getting treatment for my back
it was recommended I go see him after
months and months of pain he was said to
be a world-renowned doctor the best
gymnastics doctor in the world it made
me and everybody that knew him believe
he was a doctor that could fix you
frankly I was starstruck to even be
walking into his office doctors of his
high of stature and any doctor are to be
inherently trusted I now realized this
level of celebrity status was a strong
basis for his manipulation between
August and December of o-5 I went down
to Michigan State sports medicine office
three to four times the first time I
walked into his office he had me put on
these shorts they had a drawstring but
the bottoms of these shorts were really
wide there's no one else in the room
aside from my mother in gymnastics coach
when he put his fingers in my vagina and
anus he would move my legs back and
forth while holding my knee I remember
the pain I felt from him rubbing my legs
and back I remember this lasting for a
long time he sexually assaulted me while
he was supposed to be healing me he did
this for the pleasure of his own good
not for any other reason I ended up
getting a bacterial infection after he
did this one of the times because he put
his fingers from my anus to my vagina
without gloves
he never wore gloves when he did this
I had no idea what he was doing and that
it was sexual assault or any type of
abuse as a 16 year old I had never
touched I had never been touched in this
way before but looking back on it now
that is absolutely disgusting to think
about the same thing happened every
single time I saw him at Michigan State
University in January of oh six I was at
my team's season kickoff meet the Vegas
style Invitational in Lansing Michigan
hosted by twisters gymnastics when the
infamous John get heard this was always
my favorite meat of beer not only
because it was the first meet of the
year but also because twists ours was
known as the best term in the state I
always wish my parents would move to
Lansing so I could go to twist ours
little did I know who was that this meat
that I was sexually assaulted on two
separate occasions by NASA he took me
into the back locker room that connected
between the me and the twisters training
gym I remember my mom asking do you want
me to come with you to and him saying no
he had me take my clothes off and
molested me on the training table he
then had me put my Leo back on we went
into the twist arts gym while he watched
me flip he molested me again and sent me
on my way to my competition my vagina
was sore during my competition because
of this man how disgusting is that to
even say out loud
it baffles me that John guttered would
knowingly allow his team's doctor to see
patients during their hosted meet with
no documentation of who NASA was seeing
or what they were being treated for
actually doesn't baffle me at all it
makes perfect sense
John guttered was Larry Nasser's
Bonni to his Clyde as much as we would
like to sit here and think Nasser got
away with this and no one knew that's
bullshit
John knew I went to school at Michigan
State University from 2007 to 2011 and
graduated with a degree from Eli Broad
College of Business one of the main
reasons I chose this school is because I
accepted the position of the team
manager for MSU gymnastics I was the
manager for the team for three years I
volunteered 20 to 40 hours a week during
school to go to all the practices travel
to all the meets and spend countless
hours building team camaraderie outside
of the gym I loved it I loved the girls
I loved the dedication and Shirley loved
being in the gym I used to be so proud
to tell people I was the manager of the
gymnastics team I gave him miss you my
everything but that is all change now I
can't get over the fact that MSU could
have done something to prevent this from
happening to me and the individuals that
turned a blind eye to the monster that
is Larry Nasser
I no longer am proud to have graduated
from Michigan State University I have
lost all hope that the institution of
this stature is trustworthy and has the
students and athletes best interest at
heart
I have suffered mentally over the last
year and a half which has greatly
affected my home and work life a lot of
nowhere become angry getting fights with
my boyfriend about things that I never
would have in the past I sometimes take
it out on Steve like it's his fault but
it's not I just can't get this monster
out of my head I used to be able to work
much more efficiently and never let my
emotions get in the way of my success
the depression from this has caused me
to miss work more than I ever used to
and not be able to stay positive on work
days it is impossible to suppress the
negative emotions and anger that are
from Nasser's conduct I am doing my best
to keep this job and pray every day that
I get through this I know I'm going to
have to seek medical advice to get
through all of this you have to
understand though it's not easy even
thinking about going to see a doctor
I don't trust doctors anymore now I
always struggle with letting someone who
is called the doctor try to fix you I
feel like I have lost all enjoyment in
life never been depressed before and
used to not think depression was even a
thing until now I don't want to get out
of bed I don't want to go to work I
don't want to take a shower I don't want
to go out of my house or do anything I
used to go do yoga and play sports with
my boyfriend and haven't done any of
that since I found out Nasir assaulted
me I used to spend time with my friends
and enjoy myself but I just feel like
I'm too anxious and stressed out now to
be around anyone
I have lost countless hours of sleep
I've been struggling with the worst
nightmares ever I have lost weight and
have trouble eating sometimes because I
don't have an appetite it's disgusting
what Nasser did is affecting my whole
life work friendships my family my
sexual relationship my physical and
mental state it's hard to see into the
future and think that this will not
affect me forever any way you look at it
I am fearful that if justice is not
served this sets a precedent for other
medical professionals out there that
could be doing the same thing all that I
can hope for now is that seeing him
locked up behind bars for the rest of
his life for what he has done to me and
all of us will bring some peace and
knowing that he will never see the light
of day again I also strongly hope that
me standing here today giving this
horrifying impact statement will provide
all of the people of this world the
strength to know when a monster is in
front of your face and that no job no
status no level of greatness and no gold
medals are worth hundreds of little
girls being sexually assaulted we must
find a way to prevent this from
happening ever again children are naive
and do not have voices but we as adults
do the force of these other women and
myself is fierce come hell or high water
we will take every last one of you down
that could have stopped this monster
thank you
your fierce fierceness will help prevent
not only this what you say it's a
monster I'm not disagreeing but using
your words she's lunch but if you will
prevent him and others like him with
your fierceness I need you to leave your
nightmares here with him
between the federal court this court and
judge Cunningham he's not getting out
you've given him a nightmare one that he
will relive over and over again you are
joining with your sister survivors and
strength in numbers the numbers are
growing and your voice matters you
matter
get out enjoy your life because without
that he's winning don't let him win
you're right gold medals all of that
nothing matters life matters you need to
live yours have a golden life I want you
to live it yes all right I love the
smile it's bad keep it
[Applause]
judge the next survivor to speak just
also made the decision to to be publicly
identified and this is Ashley yes thank
you for being here please date and spell
your name for the record
Ashley Yost hey sh l ey y ou s T alright
so you're next to that microphone keep
your voice up and just talk at a pace we
can understand and your mom is here with
you is that right mm-hmm
all right so mom if you need to hug her
you're holding hands that's great
ready to proceed yes first I would like
to thank you for allowing that only me
but every other survivor blurryness are
speak their truth and have their voices
heard
Your Honor I've started restarted this
impact statement multiple times that's
because I never really knew where to
begin
I also feel that Larry Nasser doesn't
deserve to know how I've been impacted
he doesn't deserve to know anything
about me my life anymore but this letter
isn't for him it's for you judge talk
Alina it's to show you the gravity of
the actions than Who I am now because of
them this is why I chose today chose to
be here today and chose to read this
letter myself in front of everyone I
still don't know right where to really
start this everything about this whole
situation is chaotic and messy and my
thoughts are never very clear it feels
like I have so much to say about
everything but yet nothing at the same
time
my mind can't really focus on what Larry
Nassau dead for too long because it
seems like it'll be just too much if I
do I thought I knew NASA we all thought
we did when I was 16 I job shot at him
in high school he was the reason I was
so interested in the medical field and
specializing in sports medicine he was
the reason I wanted to help gymnast in
the future when I was still thinking of
becoming a doctor I thought it would be
the most amazing thing in the world to
somehow have him as a mentor now I know
how wrong all of his intentions were the
first time I stepped into one of the two
exam rooms Larry Nasser had a few sports
man I was 12 the last time was in June
of 2016 making me 24 that's 12 years of
knowing him and one half of my life
being treated by him he had a reputation
for being one of the best gymnastics
sports medicine doctors in the world and
for him to be located so close to where
I live seemed like the best luck ever it
was only when I reflected on that very
first report by Rachel with Ben
Hollander that I began to put the pieces
together
Larry Nasser was not treating me but
using me he was not the best gymnastics
sports medicine doctor he misused his
willpower in order to abuse dedicated
and hardworking athletes I don't even
consider him to be a doctor anymore
because a true doctor cares for their
patients well-being while he's in the
surf narcissistic gleam manipulated hits
in NASCAR's exam rooms there were
pictures letters and gifts dedicated to
him from his patients and thinks of how
much he had helped them I always loved
walking around everyone been reading
them trying to find out the newest
thinks of this now I see that these were
all just trophies to him he got to see
everyday how he manipulated people while
they had no idea what was going on he
gave me a pen from one of the Olympics
he had attended it made me feel so
special at the time I had it sitting out
on my desk and always noticed it
whenever I walked by now it makes me
feel sick he wanted me to feel special
he wanted me to feel like he really
cared because that's what a person like
him does he would always ask about my
family and how they were doing
as what was sharing how his family's
doing he would call me goof or my Ashley
sometimes and I thought it was out of
Karen China's now I see how wrong all of
his hat was and how he manipulated me
into thinking he actually cared I also
looked back seeing how unnecessary his
actions were there were times when he
would go through his routine but without
penetration and I would still feel
better it only clicked with me after all
the news reports how he never should
have had to use penetration in the first
place
if I was able to feel better without it
it also makes sense how he used
distraction to never really let me think
about what he was doing he would hold a
conversation with me for the entirety of
the visit so that I would had something
to focus on
he used his personal life and his family
to make it seem as if he actually cared
and would ask about mine as well it's
difficult to say how his actions have
fully impacted me I think that's because
I still haven't completely processed
everything part of me wants to believe
that this is all just some horrible
nightmare and everything is okay the
other part knows that that's what
brooming does to you makes you
second-guess yourself and question
reality it makes you want to feel
sympathy towards your assaulter because
i was groomed for so long starting at
such a young age this whole ordeal is
still something I struggle with there's
one part of me that when hearing the
other girl's stories of how he made them
feel special has actually made me feel
hurt I know that this reaction is the
result of what he did to me however
there's another part of me that knows
I'm a part of this community of strong
and powerful beautiful courageous women
in the very beginning of all this it was
difficult to think that he was capable
of being this type of person a monster
mine fully rejected the thought in the
beginning and for a long time
despite eventually acknowledging the
situation I would disassociate myself
from being a part of it I'm slowly
accepting everything for what it is and
working on scene
sorry for the monster he is that is also
why I chose to be here today the last
time I saw Larry he was still this well
renown doctor who knew how to help me
with my back pain I was sad that I was
going to be treated by him anymore the
mental image I still have as a positive
one I needed to be here today so that I
can change that I need to see what my
new reality is I need to change 12 years
worth of knowing a person I'm feeling
and feeling that I could trust them
completely I've been in therapy every
week for the past year plus now trying
to learn coping skills for my fears and
learnings trust myself and instincts
again in the past I have struggled with
anxiety depression and suicidal thoughts
with no explanation this was prior to
understanding what NASA had been really
doing to me I still struggle with
anxiety and depression although I have
yet to completely accept all the events
that have happened this past year I do
have these moments where reality hits me
and it hits hard I feel like I can't
breathe I can't think straight and
everything feels upside down and this is
something my family has to deal with
sorry they have they have to watch me
have these breakdowns and I know it
hurts them because there's nothing that
can really do to help I have to work
through it on my own
my brain has to
my brain has to process the magnitude of
the situation I still try to keep my
breakdowns private so that my family
doesn't have to suffer the consequences
of masters actions but I remember one
breakdown in particular no sorry I can't
because real quick I had a complete
moment of clarity and understanding of
who knows I really is and what he's done
and I ran it to my parents room sobbing
out of control
I remember grabbing my head and banging
it on the bed trying to get the thoughts
out
I also remember vaguely hearing my
parents in the background trying to calm
me down
it took a while but I managed to calm
down with their health and sleeping in
their bed for the rest of the night
that's something or 25 year old
shouldn't have to do sleep in their
parents bed because they're afraid of
the monsters but it's happened more than
once now and to be honest I'm not sure
when it will stop another thing that's
affected me is how a few done how I view
doctors I'm very picky about what doctor
I see and that's because I was born with
an auto inflammatory disease
Larry Nassar used to be one of my
favorite doctors it always seemed like
he was trying to help my disease make it
better and I was so grateful for that
now I know this was a part of his
manipulation I never know I'll never
know if he truly cared about my disease
and my health or if it was all just a
facade in order to get me to see him
again
now when I see doctors I can't help but
second-guess their intentions and I'm
never alone with them I need someone
there with me in order to feel
comfortable and safe this is also
something a 25 year old shouldn't have
to do right now because of all of this
I don't trust males at all apart from my
immediate family and only a few select
friends I don't want to have any
action with them I don't like them being
near me I don't like having to talk to
them I'm the thought of ever being in a
relationship right now makes me feel
nauseated this response might seem
extreme but I can't seem to help it
right now
my anxiety skyrockets whenever I have to
interact with a guy my anxiety seems to
worsen in general things that shouldn't
make me anxious in life now caused me
worry at time so it doesn't have to eat
anything going wrong for me to all of a
sudden feel this heavy weight on my
chest and like I can't breathe these
types of attacks happen more often than
I wish they did and when I'm in that
moment it seems as if he'll never stop
the hardest part about this whole thing
is that I'll never know why why layering
as I did this why he chose to prey on
children and what his fascination with
gymnastics is I'll never know if he even
cared about the health of his patients
or if me and the doctor was just a way
to get easier access to victims has he
always been like this I didn't become
like this over time as someone who has
their degree in psychology I will never
understand why all of this happened it's
one thing to be an outside observer to
something such as this than it is to
have it directly happen to you the fact
that I'll never have answers to so many
questions it's something I struggle with
daily I know that accepting the fact is
something I don't have to come to terms
with but right now I'm still confused
angry and hurt I think a part of me will
always need this way and the feeling
will just get less and less over time I
know I'll never be the same person that
I was before I found out the truth so
much about me and the way I view life
has changed some of it good and some bad
I also know that my brain is still
continuing to absorb and process all the
information and that's okay one day I
will have complete clarity of the person
Larry Nasser is and I'll be able to
handle it I know my breakdowns and
anxiety attacks are temporary I know
that even though sometimes
sometimes I just want to give in and
hide away from everyone I'm stronger
than what happened to me I refuse to let
a monster control the rest of my life so
even if I shake him this entire time
I've started to cry it doesn't matter
I'm here standing on my own two feet in
front of my assaulter and I hope he and
everyone else in this room knows who
will win this battle in the end thank
you Rachel started it you are all
winning all of us judges I've heard you
I hear you in regard to sentencing you
can't make sense of crime
your Y will not be answered I think
that's okay with you
you are in control you proved that here
today you need to leave your anxiety
here and live your life there's nothing
confusing about what you said you said
in what you read that you're confused
you're not confused you have clarity
you've got that because you were writing
that I think as you stand here publicly
and acknowledge that you are strong that
you are able to face him tell him what
he did you are helping heal not just
yourself with countless others and
making others strong with your words
that counts for so much I've heard you I
will do the right thing I hope maybe not
everybody will agree with it that's my
decision to make but you and your sister
survivors have been and will be part of
all of that
stand tall keep talking you are in
control thank you thank you
[Applause]
you
next
judges you've noted that number has
changed during the course of the week
and the next survivor you will hear from
is one of those women who had reached
out and requested to come and speak
today I am so happy she did she has
previously been publicly identified
however I will let you know as I've
indicated she's on the screen Aly
Raisman will be the next survivor thank
you please date and spell your name for
the record okay al e ex a and d ra ra is
a man thank you your honor thank you for
the opportunity to make this statement
here today and thank you for providing
the time and flexibility for all the
other brave survivors to make their
statement each survivor deserves to be
heard equally I didn't think I would be
here today I was scared and nervous it
wasn't until I started watching the
impact statements from the other brave
survivors that I realized I too needed
to be here Larry
you do realize now that we this group of
women you so heartlessly abused over
such a long period of time are now a
force and you are nothing the tables
have turned Larry we are here we have
our voices and we are not going anywhere
and now Larry it's your turn to listen
to me there is no map that shows you the
pathway to healing realizing that you
are a survivor of sexual abuse is really
hard to put into words
I cannot adequately capture at the level
of disgust I feel when I think about how
this happened Larry you abuse the power
and Trust I and so many others placed in
you and I am not sure I will ever come
to terms without horribly you
manipulated and violated me you are the
USA Gymnastics national team doctor the
Michigan
I'm doctor you were trusted by so many
and took advantage of countless athletes
and their families the effects of your
actions are far-reaching abuse goes way
beyond the moment often haunting
survivors for the rest of their lives
making it difficult to trust and
impacting their relationships it is all
the more devastating when such abuse
comes at the hand of such a highly
regarded doctor since it leaves
survivors questioning the organisations
and even the medical profession itself
upon which so many rely I am here to
face you Larry so you can see I've
regained my strength that I'm no longer
a victim I'm a survivor I am no longer
that little girl you met in Australia
where you first began grooming and
manipulating as for your letter
yesterday you are pathetic to think that
anyone would have any sympathy for you
you think this is hard for you imagine
how all of us feel imagine how it feels
to be an innocent teenager in a foreign
country hearing a knock on the door and
it's you I don't want you to be there
but I don't have a choice treatments
with you were mandatory you took
advantage of that you even told on us if
we didn't want to be treated by you
knowing full well the troubles that
would cause for us lying on my stomach
with you on my bed insisting that you're
in appropriate touch would help to heal
my pain
the reality is you caused me a great
deal of physical mental and emotional
pain you never healed me you took
advantage of our passions and our dreams
you made me uncomfortable and I thought
you were weird but I felt guilty because
you were a doctor so I assumed I was the
problem for thinking badly of you I
wouldn't allow myself to believe that
the problem with you from the time we
were little we are taught we are taught
to trust doctors you are so sick I can't
even comprehend how angry I feel when I
think of you you lied to me
manipulated me to think that when you
treated me you are closing your eyes
because you had been working hard when
you are really touching me an innocent
child to pleasure yourself imagine
feeling like you have no power and no
voice well you know what Larry I have
both power and voice and I am only
beginning to just use them all these
brave women have power and we will use
our voices to make sure you get what you
deserve a life of suffering spent
replaying the words delivered by this
powerful army of survivors I am also
here to tell you to your face Larry that
you have not taken gymnastics away from
me I love this sport and that love is
stronger than the evil that resides in
you and those who enabled you to hurt
many people you already know you're
going away to a place where you won't be
able to hurt anybody ever again but I am
here to tell you that I will not rest
until every last trace of your influence
on this sport has been destroyed like
the cancer it is your abuse started 30
years ago but that's just the first
reported incident we know of if over
these many years just one adult listened
and had the courage and character to act
this tragedy could have been avoided I
and so many others would have never ever
met you Larry you should have been
locked up a long long time ago fact is
we have no idea how many people you
victimized or what was done or not done
that allowed you to keep doing it and to
get away with it for so long over those
30 years when survivors came forward
adult after a dull many in positions of
authority protected you telling each
survivor it was okay that you weren't
abusing them in fact many adults had you
convinced the survivors that they were
being dramatic or had been mistaken this
is like being violated all over again
how do you sleep at night
you are the decorated by USA Gymnastics
in the United States Olympic Committee
both of wit which put you on advisory
boards and committees to
come up with policies that would protect
athletes from this kind of abuse
you are the person they had quote take
the lead of athlete care you are the
person they say quote provided the
foundation for our medical system
I cringe to think that your influence
remains in the policies that are
supposed to keep athletes safe that
these organizations have four years
claimed quote state of the art to
believe in the future of gymnastics is
to believe in change but how are we to
believe in change when these
organizations aren't even willing to
acknowledge the problem it's easy to put
out statements talking about how athlete
care is the highest priority but they've
been saying that for years and all the
while this nightmare was happening false
assurances from organizations are
dangerous especially when people want so
badly to believe them they make it
easier to look away from the problem and
enable bad things to continue to happen
and even now after all that has happened
USA Gymnastics has the nerve to say the
very same things and is said all along
can't you see how disrespectful that is
can't you see how much that hurts a few
days ago USA Gymnastics put out a
statement attributed to its president
and CEO Carrie Perry saying she came to
listen to the courageous woman and said
quote their powerful voices leave an
indelible imprint on me and will impact
my decision as president and CEO every
day this sounds great miss Perry but at
this point talk is cheap
you left midway through the day and no
one has heard from you or the board
Carrie I have never met you and I know
you weren't around for most of this but
you accepted the position of president
and CEO of USA Gymnastics and I assume
by now you are very well aware of the
weighty responsibility you've taken on
unfortunately you've taken on an
organization that I feel is rotting from
the inside and while this may not be
what you thought you were getting into
you will be judged by how you deal with
it a word of advice continuing to issue
statements of empty promises thinking
that will pacify us will no longer work
yesterday USA Gymnastics announced that
it was terming its lease at the ranch
were so many of
we're abused I am glad that it is no
longer a national team training site but
USA Gymnastics neglected to mention that
they had athletes training there the day
they released the statement USA
Gymnastics where is the honesty where is
the transparency why must the
manipulation continue neither USA
Gymnastics nor the USOC
have reached out to express sympathy or
even offer support not even to ask how
did this happen
what do you think we can do to help why
have I and others here probably not
heard anything from the leadership at
the USOC why has the United States
Olympic Committee been silent why isn't
the USOC here right now Larry was the
Olympic doctor and he molested me at the
2012 London Olympic Games they say now
they applaud those who have spoken out
but it's easy to say that now when the
brave women who started speaking out
back then more than a year after the
USOC says they knew about Nasser they
were dismissed at the 2016 Olympic Games
the president the USOC said that the
USOC would not conduct an investigation
and even defended USA Gymnastics as one
of the leaders in developing policies to
protect athletes that's the response a
courageous woman gets when she speaks
out and when others join those athletes
and began speaking out with more stories
of abuse were they acknowledged no it is
like being abused all over again I have
represented the United States of America
in two Olympics and have done so
successfully in both USA Gymnastics and
the United States Olympic Committee have
been very quick to capitalize and
celebrate my success but did they reach
out when I came forward No
so at this point top is worthless to me
we're dealing with real lives in the
future of our sport we need to believe
this won't happen again for this sport
to go on we need to demand real change
and we need to be willing to fight for
it it's clear now that if we leave it up
to these organizations history is likely
to repeat itself to know what changes
are needed requires us to understand
what exactly happened and why it has
happened this is a painful process but
it's the only way to identify all the
factors that contributed to this problem
and how they can be avoided in the
future this is the only way to learn
from these mistakes and make gymnastics
a safer sport if ever there was a need
to fully understand a problem it is this
one right now to accept that problem is
limited to just what we know now is
irresponsible delusional even each new
day seems to bring a new survivor
we have no idea just how much damage you
caused Larry and we have no idea how
deep these problems go now is the time
to acknowledge that the very person who
sits here before us now who perpetrated
the worst epidemic of sexual abuse in
the history of sports who is going to be
locked up for a long long time this
monster was also the architect of
policies and procedures that are
supposed to protect athletes from sexual
abuse for both USA Gymnastics and the
USOC if we are to believe in change we
must first understand the problem and
everything that contributed to it now is
not the time for false reassurances we
need an independent investigation of
exactly what happened what went wrong
and how it can be avoided for the future
only then can we know what changes are
needed only thank we believe such
changes are real your honor I asked you
to give Larry the strongest possible
sentence which is actions deserve for by
doing so you will send a message to him
and two other abusers that they cannot
get away with their horrible crimes they
will be exposed for the evil they are
and they will be punished to the maximum
extent of the law let this dent let this
sentence strike fear and anyone who
thinks it is okay to hurt another
and abusers your time is up the
survivors are here standing tall
and we are not going anywhere and please
your honor stress the need to
investigate how this happened so we can
hold accountable those who empowered and
enabled Larry Nasser so we can repair
and once again believe in this wonderful
sport my dream is that one day everyone
will know what the words need to signify
but they will be educated and able to
protect themselves from predators like
Larry so they will never ever ever have
to say the words me too thank you
[Applause]
that was well deserved thank you I'm an
adult I'm listening
I'm sorry took this long but I assure
you that all of the words that you and
your sister survivors have said and
we'll say are being considered for
sentencing I have to say there's a new
state of the art it's called Ally rest
music from graceful and he kicked and
Rachel and every woman and parent and
the doctors I heard from that state of
the art is change it cannot remain I
agree with you in regard to the ranch I
read that I didn't know there were still
people there I have no words for that I
think though they've heard you and you
were never the problem but you are so
much the solution you are unstoppable
you are part of an unstoppable growing
force and unstoppable strong loud voice
the effects of your voice are
far-reaching it's not just in this
courtroom part world why didn't I know
that even if the cameras weren't here
you are going to continue
I also I can't how you're one of the
strongest survivors we've been in front
of me I can't tell where you are on your
healing you don't I don't want you to
disclose that to me
but you words I think from my
perspective sitting here and listening
to countless people talking about this
and there are more you are so strong you
are that example to all of those other
survivors that they can be you not just
as an Olympian as a woman as a strong
survivor as a voice so the new
state-of-the-art Allen that's you thank
you thank you so much
[Applause]
judge I might normally apologize for the
next speaker to have to follow alley but
I am confident she is just as fierce she
has decided to be identified publicly
and she will be accompanied by her
father so let me introduce you to Cassie
Powell and her father Doug Powell who is
a law enforcement officer as well thank
you for being here
would you please state and spell your
name Cassie Powell ka SS IE p o wel l
thank you what would you like me to know
for the last year I have lived behind
the shadows of the name Jane Doe I was
afraid to be identified as myself and
didn't want to accept this as my story
so Jane Doe was a nice name to push my
pain and confusion off on but I can't
push it off anymore this happened to me
and I have a name my name is Cassie
Powell I was a pole vaulter and javelin
thrower on the track and field team at
Michigan State University I've spent so
many agonizing hours and days breaking
down trying to come up with the words to
adequately express the point I want to
get across here today in order to do so
I need to start at the beginning your
honor
okay sorry your honor if it's okay with
you I'll be addressing the defendant
directly for a lot of the statement you
may
I still remember the first time I ever
saw you Larry March 26 2010 my Uncle
Mike had referred me to you as he knew
that you were work he knew you from
working with you at twist stars I was 16
years old with dreams and aspirations
that were larger than my hands could
possibly grasp I had so much potential
both in physical and mental capacities
you knew what pole vault meant to me and
you knew how desperately I needed help
and relief from pain you rushed ordered
me to get an MRI that day telling me
that you thought I had cancerous tumors
or perhaps osteoid osteoma might ring a
bell you said I had cancerous tumors you
thought I had cancerous tumors pressing
against my spine and possibly fracturing
vertebrae tell it what confuse fear and
sadness rushed over my entire being I
had a family wedding that night and you
called during the wedding telling my
parents and I that it came back negative
for tumors but my l2 l3 vertebra is were
fractured I felt so helpless but so
special and cared for all at the same
time you really know how to make young
girls think they need you don't you I
came back the next week and you fitted
me for a back brace giving me advice as
I was preparing to compete in Texas at
the Youth Olympic Trials you gave me an
Olympic track and field sweatshirt and I
swear I wore that thing around my house
for weeks on end because I truly
believed I was where exactly where I
needed to be to make my dream of
becoming an Olympian come true oh how
you had me fooled that was the day you
massaged my glutes with your hands down
my pants you mentioned that medical
procedures would work better if I shaved
around my private areas I remember the
first time you used your bare fingers to
penetrate me my mom stood at my head
while your hands made their way under a
towel and under my spandex and shorts in
fear and unfamiliarity I remember
looking around frantically and as I
looked left to your figure staining over
I saw a bulge in your pants I walked out
of the office that day feeling
incredibly dirty and nauseous now let me
explain that really quickly I have been
in counseling for the last year and it
was asked to me in counseling did penis
ever cross her mind and when I was asked
that question I it became evidently
clear to me that that is exactly what I
saw that day so I will go on I walked
out of the office that day feeling
incredibly dirty and nauseous a feeling
that I have most recently come to know
as trauma and distrust my mom looked at
me while we got in the car to leave and
before we pulled away she said Cass are
you okay you look like you've seen a
ghost I replied I think I'm okay
but I don't ever want him to do that
again the 35 minute car ride home felt
like 35 hours as I didn't speak and sat
in silence trying to wrap my mind around
why I felt so nauseated the next
appointment my mom not knowing that you
had your fingers inside her 16 year old
daughter the week before kindly told you
what you did last time was really
uncomfortable and she'd prefer if he
didn't do it again she spoke for me as
you had already stolen the voice
confidence and innocence of that girl as
you can see I still struggle referring
to that young girl as I or me as I
struggle accepting that for six years I
thought you genuinely wanted to help me
and you were merely using me for your
own selfish desires to get off on
unfortunately to no one's surprise it
didn't stop there because I trusted that
it surely wouldn't happen again if we
told you not to do it again wrong
you started a routine as we've heard
many talk about each time I came in
asking about my uncle and how he was he
would have me stand in front of you and
bend over so that I would bend over so
that you could check my alignment my of
my hips you tap on the table telling me
to lay on my back
you'd start by cracking my neck my upper
back my lower
back by standing on each side of me to
rotate my upper body all normal right
what was it normal is that you would
constantly have your hands on me making
your way from the left side of my body
running your hand down my left hip and
leg only to make your way up my right
side you had you'd have me flip to my
stomach feeling the ribs on my upper
back one of my first visits you had me
sit up after feeling your way up my
upper back
standing beside behind me you lifted my
shirt from the back and your left hand
made its way under my armpit under my
sports bra and around my left breast
cupping it in your hand and massaging it
yet again
fear and panic ran through my mind as I
had no idea what was happening
you had your right hand gently on my
right shoulder with no pressure anywhere
just holding and massaging my left
breast to this day I still don't know
why I remember you asking me if it felt
better and I quickly just said yes as I
wanted it to stop and didn't know why
you were doing in the first place I'm
still comprehending and accepting that
that's just what you did over and over
isn't it take advantage of young girls
because we all just trusted what you
were doing back to your routine though
after making your way up my upper back
he would grab a towel tuck it into my
waistband grab the cocoa butter spread
it on my lower back and hamstrings and
while your left forearm slid its way up
and down my lower back in hamstrings
your right hand would make its way under
the towel and under my spandex while
your drag loveless fingers forced their
way into me pressing in and pulling so
hard against the outer wall that I could
have screamed but like athletes do I
just gritted my teeth as to not look
weak but you always made sure to make me
feel weak anyway by telling me that I
have a weak cheerleader but every single
time I saw you
but I can't even say that because I
didn't always come to your office to see
you did I know you texted me before but
my Big Ten championships my junior year
to see if I needed anything before
leaving from West Lafayette and asked me
to come over to your house yet again I
thought you cared but you just wanted to
be in your own back yard to put your
fingers inside of me did it make you
feel powerful to get away with never
having accountability or oversight even
when there was some someone shadowing
you or any assistant in the room you
made sure to advise them to leave the
room saying I'm all set you can go or
you can step out for this part like it
was no big deal even more interesting
when I met ik trainers came with me to
your appointments you would not touch me
in the same ways you understand how
sickening and painful it is to look back
at all of this no you don't you made
that evidently clear when you wrote what
you were saying that what we are saying
is not strong enough for criminal
charges I was recently asked if you
could go back and change anything what
would you change the answer is nothing
what does a young girl supposed to do in
times of fear tell their mom and plead
for it to stop I did those things
I now stripe a believing my voice means
anything or holds any weight to anyone I
feel unheard and at most times helpless
when Rachel came forward last September
thank you by the way I initially did not
want to believe it
again because I didn't want to accept
that this is part of my story
unfortunately my memory works all too
well for this madness and as I started
going to counseling it all started to
add up one plus one plus one plus 45
equals 48 48 times over six years I
believe you were helping me and now I
know you were using your authority and
status to harm me and countless other
young girls because of you I struggled
to trust anyone even god I contemplate
how God could allow something like this
to happen to me and so many others but
it wasn't God that caused this it was
you Larry Nasser
because of you being helped in use go
hand in hand I pushed away everyone I've
ever loved or has ever loved me
oftentimes lashing out at them because I
question everyone's intentions happy
extroverted carefree adventurous Cassie
has been lost as you've stolen left me
with a void and feeling of emptiness and
lost deeper than words can express
I've explained today January 19 2018 to
friends and family as my own funeral and
this is my own obituary because I now
mourn the loss of so many parts of who I
was
you stole my innocence my voice my trust
my joy and years of my life that I won't
get back so many times I've
contemplating ending my own life
thinking that torturing myself would be
better than accepting this truth because
at least then I would have control over
the pain I have hurt my dearest friends
and family who have undergone undo
misdirected anger and undue stress from
this whole process you have destroyed my
psyche and now the pain and dysfunction
doesn't just affect me and every other
girl involved in this
but it's transferred to all of those
around us I am haunted by reoccurring
nightmares of the abuse and I wake up
screaming crying and in cold sweats many
nights
there's no sanctuary from this mental
torment I want so badly to love and
accept and to be loved and accepted but
at the same time I'm so scared and
terrified that everyone is just gonna
harm me like you have I trusted you for
years how am i how am I ever supposed to
trust anyone is who they say they are I
struggled to breathe in panic and
anxiety when I think about that you put
immense fear pain and hate into my heart
what is ironic about that is yesterday
we became aware that you are really
concerned about your ability to handle
listening to impact statements for days
really you can't handle for days you
really think that we can handle the
torment and humiliation that you've
caused our mentality and status for the
rest of our lives
the scripture says a thief comes only to
kill steal and destroy you are a thief
Larry Ness are I now live in fear
darkness sadness and pain the craziest
part is that I am ashamed that I was
assaulted and have carried that shame
with me I am a shame that I was looking
at your pants that day and know you had
an erection I'm ashamed to speak of my
pain because I don't want to be going
through this living hell so why would I
share that weight with anyone else do
you understand what shame does to a
person it isolates them no human wants
to look their father or mother brother
sister friends or family in the eyes and
tell them how they were used I shut
everyone out and sat alone in a lot of
this darkness
I graduated from Michigan State in 2015
and moved to Nashville Tennessee where I
was managing a medical facility every
day I watch patients walk in desperate
for help and sat in my own mental agony
facing flashbacks and triggers that were
unbearable unable to handle the medical
setting and unsure of what to do with my
professional life in order to make a
living I was encouraged to pursue it I
loved coaching I was given an
opportunity to come back to Michigan
State as a graduate assistant for the
track and field team I had a choice stay
in Nashville and struggle to focus on
anything else outside of this consuming
de-stress or come back to East Lansing
and face all of this head-on walking the
same sidewalks and hallways I did when
you were abusing me neither of those are
they I chose to run back into a burning
building with fire and debris all around
me and Here I am still standing still
pressing on in spite of you and in
pursuit of my own dream to coach with
the help of counselors medical
professionals unlike yourself family
friends and God's faithful and unfailing
love I have hope that I will find
healing and peace strength and dignity I
now want to take a moment to thank many
people February 1st of 2017 and 2/7
excuse me
February 1st of 2017 was the day I
decided to come forward after five
months of understanding the war that was
waged against me I want to thank my dad
a retired law enforcement officer for
helping me make that call and for being
my human dictionary and hero when I
didn't understand what was happening
legally mentally emotionally the list
goes on I want to thank Detective Andrea
Mumford for graciously receiving the
call and gently walking with me through
the process from start to finish
thank you to my counselors for helping
me understand the utter confusion that
comes from being both helped and harmed
at the very same time and for helping me
believe that tears don't always mean
you're weak that sometimes tears are
evidence of strength
thank you to my incredible parents
brother and sister who have listened to
me talk in circles never judge me and
have helped me stand thank you to my
roommates Matt and Jill for giving me a
safe place to live when I didn't know
what the word safe meant anymore
to my best friend Erica who has been so
present encouraging forgiving patient
and loving thank you thank you to
everyone involved in the trial and for
their endless time and attention
j-jack Molina I want to personally thank
you for taking the time to hear us all
out and for validating the strength it
takes to stand up against this evil
thank you for restoring us with a little
bit of dignity by calling us heroes
against an epidemic after Larry pled
guilty and for Kim continuing to do so
day after day this week and finally to
every girl involved here thank you for
your bravery for your vulnerability and
for your strength when you felt anything
but strong I have struggled thinking
about this day and all the emotions that
would bring I was so afraid of standing
up here looking this man in the eyes
because I knew that staring evil in the
eyes would take strength that I do not
have in and of myself I knew I was
walking into a situation that would
bring closure yes but also I knew that
it would what I was walking into today
would bring would cause more nightmares
and flashbacks for days and nights to
come I've reminded myself that my God my
Savior also walked into a situation
where he was abused mocked and terrified
but he did it in order that we may have
life I remind myself that Esther was put
in a situation for such a time as this
so that her people would find relief and
deliverance the same thing every one of
us is seeking here this week I remember
the story of Joseph in Genesis 50:20 you
meant evil against me Larry but God
meant it for good I remind myself in
Hebrews 10 30 June says mine says the
Lord I will repay that one helps me
sleep at night
I remind myself that sometimes we are
giving far more than we can handle
so that we will fall on our faces and
desperation for God to give us the
strength for another day I remind myself
that after crucifixion himself of self
and humiliation on Friday Jesus rose on
Sunday and so will we
I remind myself that the Prophet Joe
blows lost everything and thought he and
thought and though he never got the
answer to why he still believed that God
is good and in the midst of great loss
and immense pain he believed he was good
we will never know the answer to why
Larry NASA used all of us but I have to
believe this suffering and pain will
make us stronger so we must not walk
away from here with our heads hung low
but with pride in ourselves that we have
stood firm against evil and stopped it
there will be so many hard days ahead
of memories followed by triggers causing
pain and sadness fear and anger but on
those days I pray we will all know we're
not alone that we have each other and
there are strength in numbers I prayed
that God would help us find forgiveness
and peace in the midst of all this
forgiveness will look differently for
all of us for me it will be a daily
occurrence in battle Ephesians 4:31 32
says get rid of all bitterness rage and
anger brawling and slander along with
every form of malice be kind and
compassionate to one another forgiving
each other just as in Christ God just as
in Christ God forgave you I wish I could
stand in front of you today and tell you
that I forgive you Larry but it will be
a daily fight to forgive you and to find
healing in peace the hardest part about
ending this statement is I know as soon
as I walk away from this room I will
think about a million other things I
want to say what am I supposed to do
with that I guess I'll find out as I go
with that it will soon be time for Larry
to reap what he has sown there's no
grooming that can be done in the face of
this Judge to blind her eyes to the evil
heinous harm that you did
it is time for justice to finally be
served you hit four years behind Olympic
rings in a Spartan head but there is now
nowhere left for you to hide larry
jackel alina i plead with you that you
would give this man the maximum sentence
thank you for your time thank you I want
you to know first of all superwoman has
nothing at you our amazing woman you all
are this is the new generation of super
women that we're hearing from you matter
your voice means everything here I know
you felt that you haven't had a voice
but you've been her you stole your voice
back and he will never have it or hear
it again unless these words are played
to him I absolutely adore your career
choice being a coach with your wisdom
intelligence and eyes wide open on
behalf of everybody you coach is vital
to the change that all of you are
seeking and I applaud that please keep
your voice going I've said it before I'm
gonna keep saying it because it's an
epidemic
suicide shut you up doesn't like
anything good happen except it is a very
very sick type of person to commit
crimes such as murder or assault so I
would never do that I am so glad to hear
that because I've heard it from most of
you that it's crossed your mind and I
just want to reinforce that we want you
here we want your voice we want that
super voice that super coach that you're
going to
and I'm so pleased that you came here
keep up the good fight I'm gonna be
watching and I don't know how you feel
right now but I really feel like you are
ten feet taller than when you came in my
father also has a couple words I don't
know if he's prepared or if you would be
willing to hear them alright sir I need
you to state and spell your name for the
record
my name is Doug Powell do you G Peter W
jacquelina I find myself unfamiliar yet
disturbing unfamiliar territory today as
we appear here in your court I will do
my very best to remain ethical
politically correct as I address this
court the defendant his counsel in this
extremely emotionally charged issue may
address the defendant inmate Nasir
inmate Nasir that is what your name is
and don't you forget that
the media outlets that have so intently
covered this hearing need to know your
name your name is not dr. Nasir it is
not mr. Nasir it is not Larry its inmate
inmate 2 1 5 0 4 - 0 4 0 for your
eternal life
as a law enforcement correctional
professional for over 32 years I speak
for myself and my personal feelings that
you do not deserve to be educated
regarding your future you did not
deserve to be educated on the how tubes
how to fly a kite to a correctional
officer to ask for a doctor how to fly a
kite to ask how to fill out an engine
engine inmate form how to fly a kite to
ask how you use the inmate telephone
system you do not deserve the winds when
will those blue clothes you have on your
back be washed when will those whites
that are limited in your possession be
laundered when will your blankets be
laundered you do not deserve that the
wares within those facilities and the
watch out force you do not deserve to be
educated in that as you are forever
escorted from wall to wall because as we
have all seen and you have proven you
did not care to extend that courtesy for
compassion to anyone yet you simply
benefited from your pathetic
narcissistic psychopathic agenda however
I will educate you on some prisoner GATS
language terms that you might want to
understand as documented in a
correctional textbook that I've used for
lectures written by PhD Frank Mallard
and smiling gir and PhD smelling her you
want me spell it SCH M a ll eg ER and
PhD John smiler s my KL a you will want
to come familiar
with these terms fish Chester diaper
sniper diddler tree jumper just a list
of few I hope these are gots are
offensive to you because you are
offensive to us however in my world and
in my family's world that you have so
conveniently destroyed you are a fucking
hog a hobby
in May Nasir I pray and I'm sure this
goes against severals opinion in this
room but I pray that these county state
and federal correctional staff that you
will forever come in contact with
perform their jobs to the best of their
abilities to keep you alive and don't
you dare try to manipulate the
correctional facility and be a coward
and harm yourself alive so you can live
in fear as you had inflicted fear guilt
and pain on these young women and
Families fear the demons from the dark
as we have done fear that you wake
soaked in the night with sweat from the
nightmares as I and my family have done
fear for the safety sanity of your
children wife and family as I and my
family have done I want you to fear the
pain of the futuristic death
notifications that are certain to come
your way as you remain locked within the
walls unable to hold and console your
family I want you to fear those dark
corners unimaginable correctional
corridors I want you to fear that bootie
bandit that wants to make you as Punk
I want you to fear and cry and no one to
listen I want you to remain alive for
your eternal life inside those walls
I read up quote a few weeks back
searching the internet for inspiring
quotes and sayings just trying to help
my girls play some sort of existence in
daily life during all this darkness and
nights and this quote resonates in my
mind as I am a woodworker for
therapeutic reasons and I paraphrase you
and mate Nasser are like a piece of
sandpaper and a woodworkers shop you
scratch you dig and you will change the
exterior and in this case the enthusiasm
the internal Minds the trust and the
dignity of so many but in the end those
scratched and dug will become polished
and beautiful and beautiful strong woman
they are and they have rocked your world
and you inmate Nasser will be discarded
and thrown into the garbage like the
garbage you are judge a Kalina
as we approach the close to these four
daunting days I ve emotionally charged
statements
I applaud you we applaud you this room
applaud you your candor your demeanor
your willingness willingness and
understanding to listen to so many
horrific stories I encourage you to
impose the maximum sentence of by an
inmate Nasir recommended by attorney
pavel itis and her team i we eagerly
wait for the closure of this hearing to
hear your voice thank you you are also a
survivor with that voice and your voice
has also helped to shape now in the
future others and Iraq defendants world
I have heard you know things needed with
me I know this seems unusual and it is
unusual because of so many victims what
I do this every day is all victims
I'm not specially selecting
this I know you all keep honoring me
that way and I'm humbled but it's really
not necessary you did your job out on
the streets that's more than what I have
ever done
thank you sir thank you to your
beautiful daughter you're quite a team
thank you
[Applause]
all right at this time we are going to
break for lunch until 130 130 thank you
you